# happines
Happiness-themed research, which is starting to be discussed more and more in the international literature, is of interest to many branches of science. The concept of happiness, which has recently become an area of interest in economic science, and happiness measurements are closely related to public economics and government policies in particular. In order for the decisions to be taken and the applications to be made in these areas to reach more effective results, it is very important to determine the values that make individuals happy and satisfied. Therefore, the research of the happiness economy and the measurement of the happiness/satisfaction level of individuals are among the main factors that can determine how and in what way public policies will be made
In order for happiness-themed research to be concluded more effectively, it is necessary to prevent concept confusion. It is very important to discuss and clearly define concepts such as happiness, satisfaction, quality of life, and to identify objective and subjective variables that determine happiness and satisfaction. Happiness and satisfaction with life are values that vary from person to person, from region to region and are difficult to measure. Therefore, whether an individual is happy or satisfied with life, the level of realization of his values that will make that individual happy or satisfied with life will determine. When the international literature is examined, it has been suggested that individuals with a low income level in happiness research are happier than those with a high income level. Similarly, in the happiness rankings conducted between countries, it is found that some countries with low national income are in the front ranks compared to countries with high national income in a similar way to this situation. Dec. Of course, Deciphering the relationship between income and happiness does not depend only on these two factors. 132 MURAT SEKER. Therefore, it is necessary to consider and evaluate other factors affecting happiness along with income in the analyses to be conducted in this area. The place of public practices on the basis of a society's being happy and satisfied is a point that should not be ignored. The social contribution of the research to be conducted in this field is to measure the satisfaction of society from public services effectively and to encourage the implementation of policies that increase social welfare. Accurate and comprehensive identification of the factors that make individuals happy can ensure that public expenditures are directed to areas that increase social happiness Jul. Thus, it will be possible to realize the steps to be taken in ensuring that the citizens, which is the most important goal of the state, are happy and satisfied in a more effective and realistic way.(Excerpt: Murat Seker/100902)
Finland became the happiest country in the world for the fourth time in a row Finland, Denmark and Switzerland are in the top three places in the World Happiness Report, which was determined by the assessment of the United Nations among 149 countries. Dec. 93 Last year. Turkey, which is next, is 104. he fell back into line. According to the report, the most unhappy country was Afghanistan again.Nine of the top 10 countries in the report are European countries. The only country outside Europe in the top 10 is New Zealand.Since the first World Happiness Report was published in 2012, there have been four countries that have come out on top: Denmark in 2012, 2013 and 2016, Switzerland in 2015, Norway in 2017 and finally Finland in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021.
People from 149 countries were interviewed while preparing the United Nations World Happiness Report, which evaluates gross domestic product, social support, average healthy life expectancy, citizens' freedom to make decisions about their own lives, generosity, and the level of corruption in the country.
finland. SO WHAT MAKES THE FINNS SO HAPPY?
The results of the Happiness Index of Countries prepared by the United Nations (UN) for 2020 were shared. In the research, where many criteria such as income distribution of countries, environmental and safety conditions, life expectancy and social life standards were evaluated, Finland was selected as the happiest country in the world by scoring 7809 points this year, as in the last 3 years. Denmark was 2nd with 7760 points and Switzerland was 3rd with 7560 points. In the Happiness Index Report, where Turkey ranks 93rd with 5132 points, Afghanistan took the last place with 2567 points.
Quality public health care is importantthe fact that the Dutch were chosen as the happiest nation for 3 consecutive years also enabled a number of studies to be conducted about why they are so happy. Experts in various parts of the world agree that the source of happiness is largely a sense of trust. Quality public health service comes at the beginning of the elements that create this trust. As for health, which is one of the most important factors constituting social development, Finns believe that they will receive the best services in any case and that both their own health and the health of their children are under state guarantee. Even if they lose their jobs and income, they feel confident that they will be able to access high-quality healthcare services.
Freedom, equality and democracy In Finland, led by the youngest prime minister in the world, there are 12 female ministers in the cabinet. Sanna Marin, who took office at the end of 2019, is extremely determined to be the prime minister who does not provide for the happiness of Finns, but maintains it by increasing it. The Equality Law in the country, where equality, freedom and rights are applied with the utmost care, is considered as a guarantee of ensuring social equality. In Finland, where egalitarian practices for women are under state guarantee with the support of non-governmental organizations, disabled people, LGBTI (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) individuals and all minorities also experience the confidence of being able to enjoy the same social rights. Finally, with a change in the law, it was ensured that the same rights were given to the parents during childbirth.
'Even though the sun is gone, its lights are with us'finlians have already managed to turn the long polar nights into happiness. Country people who have been deprived of sunlight for months are choosing to take advantage of other beauties of nature by accepting this routine as part of life. 70% of Finland is covered with forests. The Finnish relationship with the forest is extremely strong. They even have a description called the ’Finnish spirit', which they Decry and own, describing the special bond between the forest and man.
An example to the world in education Finland's education system is woven with practices that will be an example to the world. The education system in Finland is a very special system with no homework, where children provide transportation by bicycle and walking paths, classrooms are designed in a home environment, children's freedoms are at the forefront, there is no educational curriculum and grade anxiety. In a country where cultural activities are usually free and very accessible, the privileges for artists are also causing art to shine more and more.Population less investment much
5.5 million people live in the country where the number of people per square kilometer is the least in Europe. The fact that the population is so small also facilitates human investment. Saunas, which are the norm of daily life in Finland, where there are allegedly more saunas than cars, also provide an effect that relaxes a person, reduces pain and eliminates stress. In Finland, which has the cleanest water in the world, very important steps have been taken in all areas from carbon emission to natural energy use, Jul in addition to recycling practices.
